docs/getting_started.rst, before:

===============
Getting started
===============
.. toctree::

Once installed, ``MOSFiT`` can be run from any directory, and it's typically
convenient to make a new directory for your project.

.. code:: bash

    mkdir mosfit_runs
    cd mosfit_runs

``MOSFiT`` can be invoked either via either :code:`python -m mosfit` or simply
:code:`mosfit`. Then, to run ``MOSFiT``, pass an event name to the program via
the ``-e`` flag (the default model is a simple Nickel-Cobalt decay with
diffusion)::

    mosfit -e LSQ12dlf

Different models (several are distributed with ``MOSFiT``) can be fit to
supernovae using the model flag ``-m``::

    mosfit -e LSQ12dlf -m slsn

Multiple events can be fit in succession by passing a list of names separated
by spaces (names containing spaces can be specified using quotation marks)::

    mosfit -e LSQ12dlf SN2015bn "SDSS-II SN 5751"

------------------
Parallel execution
------------------

``MOSFiT`` is parallelized and can be run in parallel by prepending
``mpirun -np #``, where ``#`` is the number of processors in your
machine +1 for the master process. So, if you computer has 4 processors,
the above command would be::

    mpirun -np 5 mosfit -e LSQ12dlf

``MOSFiT`` can also be run without specifying an event, which will yield a
collection of light curves for the specified model described by the priors on
the possible combinations of input parameters specified in the
``parameters.json`` file. This is useful for determining the range of possible
outcomes for a given theoretical model::

    mpirun -np 5 mosfit -i 0 -m magnetar

The code outputs JSON files for each event/model combination that each contain
a set of walkers that have been relaxed into an equilibrium about the posterior
parameter distributions. This output is visualized via an example Jupyter
notebook (``mosfit.ipynb``), which is copied to the ``products`` folder in the
run directory, and by default shows output from the last ``MOSFiT`` run.

-------------------
Using your own data
-------------------

``MOSFiT`` has a built-in converter that can take input data in a number of
formats and convert that data to the Open Catalog JSON format. Using the
converter is straightforward, simply pass the path to the file(s) using the
same ``-e`` flag::

    mosfit -e my_ascii_data_file.csv

When run with no other arguments, ``MOSFiT`` will convert the files to JSON
format and immediately exit, but if run with the other standard arguments
``MOSFiT`` will read in the newly created JSON files and begin processing them. For more information, please see the `Private data`_ section.

-------------------------------------------
Sharing data and outputs with the community
-------------------------------------------

To upload fits back to the Open Catalogs, users can simply pass
the ``-u`` flag::

    mosfit -e LSQ12dlf -m slsn -u

Upon completing the fitting process, and if the fits satisfy some quality
checks, the model fits will uploaded to the Open Catalogs, where they will be
ingested and available approximately 24 hours after their submission.

If the data was read from a file (rather than a name), and if the ``-u`` option
was provided, ``MOSFiT`` will offer the user the option of uploading the
*observed* data to the Open Catalogs as well, in addition to the model fits.
Because of the possibility that local data passed to ``MOSFiT`` is private, the
user will be asked if they wish to upload each event before they are uploaded.
Users should immediately contact the maintainers of ``MOSFiT`` if they believe
they have uploaded private data in error (because of the 24 hour waiting
period, the inadvertantly uploaded data can be purged before becoming public).

Commit message:

DOCS: added some secs to getting_started

docs/getting_started.rst, after:

===============
Getting started
===============
.. toctree::

Once installed, ``MOSFiT`` can be run from any directory, and it's typically
convenient to make a new directory for your project.

.. code:: bash

    mkdir mosfit_runs
    cd mosfit_runs

``MOSFiT`` can be invoked either via either :code:`python -m mosfit` or simply
:code:`mosfit`. Then, to run ``MOSFiT``, pass an event name to the program via
the ``-e`` flag (the default model is a simple Nickel-Cobalt decay with
diffusion)::

    mosfit -e LSQ12dlf

Different models (several are distributed with ``MOSFiT``) can be fit to
supernovae using the model flag ``-m``::

    mosfit -e LSQ12dlf -m slsn

Multiple events can be fit in succession by passing a list of names separated
by spaces (names containing spaces can be specified using quotation marks)::

    mosfit -e LSQ12dlf SN2015bn "SDSS-II SN 5751"

The code outputs JSON files for each event/model combination that each contain
a set of walkers that have been relaxed into an equilibrium about the posterior
parameter distributions. This output is visualized via an example Jupyter
notebook (``mosfit.ipynb``), which is copied to the ``products`` folder in the
run directory, and by default shows output from the last ``MOSFiT`` run.

------------------
Parallel execution
------------------

``MOSFiT`` is parallelized and can be run in parallel by prepending
``mpirun -np #``, where ``#`` is the number of processors in your
machine +1 for the master process. So, if you computer has 4 processors,
the above command would be::

    mpirun -np 5 mosfit -e LSQ12dlf

``MOSFiT`` can also be run without specifying an event, which will yield a
collection of light curves for the specified model described by the priors on
the possible combinations of input parameters specified in the
``parameters.json`` file. This is useful for determining the range of possible
outcomes for a given theoretical model::

    mpirun -np 5 mosfit -i 0 -m magnetar

-------------------
Using your own data
-------------------

``MOSFiT`` has a built-in converter that can take input data in a number of
formats and convert that data to the Open Catalog JSON format. Using the
converter is straightforward, simply pass the path to the file(s) using the
same ``-e`` flag::

    mosfit -e my_ascii_data_file.csv

When run with no other arguments, ``MOSFiT`` will convert the files to JSON
format and immediately exit, but if run with the other standard arguments
``MOSFiT`` will read in the newly created JSON files and begin processing them. For more information, please see the `Private data`_ section.

-----------------
Producing outputs
-----------------

All outputs (except for converted observational data) are stored in the ``products`` directory, which is created by ``MOSFiT`` automatically in the current run directory. By default, a single file with the transient's name, e.g. ``LSQ12dlf.json``, will be produced; this file contains all of the information originally available in the input JSON file and the results of the fitting. An exact copy of this file is stored under the name ``walkers.json`` for convenience.

Additional outputs can be produced via some optional flags that can be passed to ``MOSFiT``. Please see the `Additional outputs`_ section.

-------------------
Visualizing outputs
-------------------

-------------------------------------------
Sharing data and outputs with the community
-------------------------------------------

To upload fits back to the Open Catalogs, users can simply pass
the ``-u`` flag::

    mosfit -e LSQ12dlf -m slsn -u

Upon completing the fitting process, and if the fits satisfy some quality
checks, the model fits will uploaded to the Open Catalogs, where they will be
ingested and available approximately 24 hours after their submission.

If the data was read from a file (rather than a name), and if the ``-u`` option
was provided, ``MOSFiT`` will offer the user the option of uploading the
*observed* data to the Open Catalogs as well, in addition to the model fits.
Because of the possibility that local data passed to ``MOSFiT`` is private, the
user will be asked if they wish to upload each event before they are uploaded.
Users should immediately contact the maintainers of ``MOSFiT`` if they believe
they have uploaded private data in error (because of the 24 hour waiting
period, the inadvertantly uploaded data can be purged before becoming public).
